---
title: "Cloud-based computational model predictive control using a parallel multiblock ADMM approach"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/IOTJ1
excerpt: 'We devise an innovative scheme called cloud-based computational model predictive control (MPC) by using an elaborately designed parallel multiblock alternating direction method of multipliers (ADMMs) algorithm. This novel parallel multiblock ADMM algorithm is tailored to tackle the computational issue of solving a nonconvex problem with nonlinear constraints.'
date: 2023-06-15
venue: 'IEEE Internet of Things Journal'
slidesurl: #'http://academicpages.github.io/files/slides3.pdf'
paperurl: 'https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/10022320'
citation: 'Dai, L., Ma, Y., Gao, R., Wu, J., & Xia, Y. (2023). Cloud-based computational model predictive control using a parallel multiblock ADMM approach. IEEE Internet of Things Journal, 10(12), 10326-10343.'
---

Heavy computational load for solving nonconvex problems for large-scale systems or systems with real-time demands at each sample step has been recognized as one of the reasons for preventing a wider application of nonlinear model predictive control (NMPC). To improve the real-time feasibility of NMPC with input nonlinearity, we devise an innovative scheme called cloud-based computational model predictive control (MPC) by using an elaborately designed parallel multiblock alternating direction method of multipliers (ADMMs) algorithm. This novel parallel multiblock ADMM algorithm is tailored to tackle the computational issue of solving a nonconvex problem with nonlinear constraints. It is ensured that the designed algorithm converges to a locally optimal solution of the optimization problem under reasonable assumptions by using the Kurdyka–Łojasiewicz property. With the help of this distributed optimization algorithm, a computational MPC scheme is developed, which can transform the NMPC optimization problem into a set of subproblems only associated with the decision variables at one prediction step. Through the parallel computing algorithm, the computational MPC can deal with large computational loads caused by high-dimensional optimization problems, and improve computational efficiency. Furthermore, to allow for a more efficient implementation of the developed computational MPC and alleviate local calculation loads, a cloud-based computational MPC architecture is devised, which makes significantly better use of computational resources provided by a cloud server. An important advantage of this architecture with Docker container to implement parallelization is that it does not lead to large increases in the solution time regardless of how long the prediction horizon is set. Finally, the developed cloud-based computational MPC architecture is trialed on a group of plug-in hybrid electric vehicles (PHEVs).
